docs(sessions): :memo: add section on file paths (#67)
rostools/github-intro: sessions/basics.qmd

2.  For 4 minutes, pair up with your neighbour and take turns explaining
    to them what you remember, 2 minutes each.

## :book: Reading task: What is a file path?

**Time: \~3 minutes.**

Operating systems like Windows and MacOS try really hard to make the
filesystem, and ultimately file paths, hidden or obscured from the user.
This has some benefits, but lots of downsides. Computers and their
programs depend on file paths, so by hiding them from the user, they
don't learn what they are and how to use them effectively. So as soon as
a user needs to do even a bit deeper computer work, they encounter file

> paths and need to know how they work. This is especially true of Git and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
paths and need to know how they work. This is especially true for Git and
```
Maybe?

GitHub.

So to make sure we're all on the same page, we'll briefly describe what
file paths are and why they're important to know about.

> In simple terms, a path is the location of a file or folder in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In simple terms, a **path** is the location of a file or folder in a
```

filesystem. The end of a path is either a folder or a file and indicated
by either a `/` or an extension like `.txt` or `.docx`. All items in the
path before the last item are folders. For example:

> -   `/Users/username/Documents` is a path to the `Documents` folder,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `/Users/username/Documents/` is a path to the `Documents` folder,
```
to indicate it's a folder like described above

    within the `username` folder, which is then within the `Users`
    folder.
-   `/Users/username/Documents/notes.txt` is a path to the `notes.txt`
    file, within the `Documents` folder, which is within the `username`
    folder, and finally in the `Users` folder.

When you make files for work, it's best to organise files and folders
based on the project you are working on, so that things are easy to find
and kept together. This is especially important when using tools like
Git and GitHub. That's because tools like Git and GitHub work *within* a
specific folder and treat that *specific* folder as a Git repository.
Then, all files within that repository (folder) are relative to one
another. This "relativeness" also is shown by two "special characters":

> -   `..`: Two dots mean the folder up one. So if you open up a folder
>     into `/Users/username/`, the `../` is the `/Users/` folder, since it
>     is one folder up from `username`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `..`: Two dots mean the folder up one, also called the "parent folder". If you open the folder `username/`
    in the file path `/Users/username/`, the `../` is the `/Users/` folder, since it
    is one folder up from `username`.
```

> -   `.`: One dot means the current folder. So if you open up a folder
>     and see `./Documents`, it means to add `Documents` to the end of the
>     file path, which in the example above would be
>     `/Users/username/Documents/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `.`: One dot means the current folder. If you open up the folder `Documents/` 
    and see `./Documents` that means to add `Documents` to the end of the
    file path, which in the example above would be
    `/Users/username/Documents/`.
```
